>> Steve Kinney: So
we talked about that with text.
We had the Transformers library.
Great library.
We did all this stuff with
the Transformers library.
And, yeah, I made some charts at
one point with a different library.
And that Bertviz thing,
which was kind of cool but confusing.
That was neat, but that was all
from the Transformers library.
Hugging Face has another kind of
similar library called Diffusers,
and they help us use a different model
architecture called stable diffusion,
in which we turn chaotic
noise into Moo Deng.
I don't care if you remember
what a transformer block is.
Honestly, whatever,
if you're not aware what Moo Deng is,
you owe it to yourself to go see
a delightful, ungovernable, pygmy hippo.
And again, if you imagine the cats walking
across Collab in the very beginning and
me generating pictures of
baby hippo on a weekend,
you can understand why my wife was
not convinced that I was working.
But I used it to get out of lots of stuff,
so it's fine.
And so, effectively, there's like,
is it a Michelangelo quote?
There's a lot of those quotes where
we think they're quoted to somebody.
You find out half the Oscar Wilde
quotes are misattributed.
I long to be somebody when I'm long dead
to have tons of quotes that I didn't say
attributed to me.
But I think the Michelangelo thing is,
how do you make a sculpture?
You chip away all the parts of the rock
that are not the David or what have you.
And that is effectively,
again, if Transformers and
generative AI is simply
guess the next word.
And all this stuff seems like magic.
It's just a statistical
guessing statistic.
Stable diffusion is,
you start out with a chaotic
randomness of just TV static,
but with more colors,
and you keep taking away all the parts
that aren't what you wanted to see.
So when we see all of those
crazy AI images or whatever,
all that's really happening is
you start with absolute chaos.
And then each time, you try to get
a little bit closer to a hippo, right?
Or to a cat, cuz we all know
the Internet is powered by cats.
Right, it has a bunch of real images,
right,
that are labeled like this is a cat.
This is a hippo.
This is a whatever.
And each time it goes,
that's still not a hippo, all right?
Still not a hippo, all right?
Keep going.
Keep doing stuff until we
think we have a hippo, right?
And maybe with the weaker models,
you end up with a hand with
19 fingers on it, right?
And that's how you end up with that.
Cause it's like everyone's like,
well, it's so wrong.
I'm like, yeah,
if you think about the fact that it
just started with rando pixels and
just got its way there, honestly, a six
fingered hand is pretty impressive to me.
And to be clear,
again, we are gonna try to keep this
on the cheapest hardware we can.
So prepare to be underwhelmed,
[LAUGH], right?
And with small models
that will render quickly.
If I had the time to do the thing I did in
high school when I worked on VHS videos
where I would just choose the most
ridiculous render and then go hang out
in the cafeteria in my video editing
class so I didn't have to go.
And it doesn't matter.
But if we're trying to do this quickly,
we're gonna do small models,
we're gonna do on the cheap GPUs and
stuff like that.
Still kinda cool.
So we take the random static.
It knows what real images look like.
And every time, every pass, step by step,
it tries to get you one iteration
closer to a cat wearing sunglasses.
There's a few pieces to this
one we already know and
maybe love unclear,
which is the Text Encoder,
which is usually you can do
image to image too, right?
But usually it is take the string of text,
turn it into an image, right?
So the part where it figures out what
the text means is the same as before.
Then there's a few terms they will appear,
so they're worth explaining.
They are not worth stressing out over.
Because the best way to learn any of
this stuff is to learn just enough to
be dangerous and
throw yourself at it, right?
Feeling like you need to have a PhD
before you can do anything is silly.
So you'll see the term U-Net, which is
that core neural network that predicts
the noise in an image at each step.
So it's like what parts are still noise?
The Scheduler tries to like, how much
noise can we remove at each interval.
This is basically like how
much GPU you got, right?
How much can I use?
Let me dole it out until we get there,
right?
The more GPU you have, the less
iterations you have to go through.
And I will explain some of these
other terms in this next one.
Cuz this one,
even as I was typing it stressed me out.
The Variational Autoencode, it compresses
the image down to a lower latent space.
I'll tell you what that is, don't worry.
For efficient processing and
then decode as a final representation
back to a visible image.
The point that I want you to remember
is that it's not unlike the encoding,
decoding, transformer piece,
which is there were words, there is image.
Turn it into numbers
that we can play with and
then turn it back into image
that I can enjoy, right?
Those pieces are all the kind of the
pillars, you will see them in the code.
There will be no quiz
that you memorize them.
You will get a feel for
them as time goes on.
A whole bunch of knobs to turn.
As you can imagine, I picked the ones
that at the moment that I was making this
slide, felt like the best ones.
So how many steps do you
wanna do to denoise it?
Fewer steps faster, fewer steps worse.
More steps longer,
more steps better, [LAUGH], right?
How big is your GPU, honestly?
The guidance scale is how strictly
the model should adhere to your prompt.
This is effectively not
unlike the temperature,
especially if you're doing image to image.
How much creative license
do you want to give it?
So a lot of the kind of concepts
might have different names cuz they
weren't developed by the same
people at the same time, but
the fundamental principles are the same.
And turns out shocker to everyone,
bigger images take more, [LAUGH], right?
So keep them small if you want
them fast or you don't want to,
I don't know,
have $1,000 electricity bill.
I don't know.